IDE plugins
===========

:link_to_translation:`zh_CN:[中文]`

.. raw:: html

   <style>
   body {counter-reset: h2}
     h2 {counter-reset: h3}
     h2:before {counter-increment: h2; content: counter(h2) ". "}
     h3:before {counter-increment: h3; content: counter(h2) "." counter(h3) ". "}
     h2.nocount:before, h3.nocount:before, { content: ""; counter-increment: none }
   </style>

--------------

How to add ESP32 development board on Arduino IDE?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

  - For installation instructions of Arduino-ESP32, please refer to `arduino-ide getting started <https://docs.espressif.com/projects/arduino-esp32/en/latest/getting_started.html>`_.
  - For instructions on how to add development boards on Arduino IDE, please refer to `arduino Cores <https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Cores>`_.

----------------

When using the Arduino IDE development platform, how to read the MAC address of the Wi-Fi that comes with ESP32?
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  - Please refer to the `Arduino-ESP32 Development Framework <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32>`_.
  - Use "WiFi.macAddress()" to obtain the MAC address of ESP32's Wi-Fi.
  - Please also refer to the `WiFiClientStaticIP example <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32/blob/a59eafbc9dfa3ce818c110f996eebf68d755be24/libraries/WiFi/examples/WiFiClientStaticIP/WiFiClientStaticIP.ino>`_.
  
--------------

How to use the flash download tool to flash the bin file generated by Arduino to ESP32?
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  - Please go to ``File`` -> ``Preferences`` -> ``Show verbose output during`` and select ``compilation``. After compilation succeeded, a Python flashing command will be printed with the bin file to be flashed and the corresponding flashing address.
  - Download the flash download tool on the `tools page <https://www.espressif.com/en/support/download/other-tools>`_ on Espressif's official website, select the bin file when using the flash download tool to flash, and enter the corresponding flashing address.

------------

How to update the esp32-arduino library version?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  - Under the path ``Tool`` > ``Board`` > ``BoardManager``, search for ``ESP32`` to select and install the desired version of the `esp32-arduino <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32>`_ library.

--------------

Can ESP32-SOLO-1 be developed using the Arduino software?
---------------------------------------------------------

  - Currently, the Arduino software development environment only supports the operation of ESP32 dual-core chips and does not support the operation of ESP32 single-core chips. Therefore, ESP32-SOLO-1 is not yet supported for development on Arduino software.
  - If you still prefer to use Arduino to build your code, you can use the `arduino-esp32 <https://github.com/espressif/arduino-esp32>`_ library as an `ESP-IDF component <https://docs.espressif.com/projects/arduino-esp32/en/latest/esp-idf_component.html>`_ for development and testing.

